[MUSIC]
In this demo we're going to use the camera
module and the raspberry pi, so
let's first disconnect to
the raspberry pi using Secure Shell.
So I'm starting my putty
Secure Shell Client and
again I'm typing in, if you've seen
any of these other recent demos,
I'm typing in the IP
address of my Raspberry Pi.
[INAUDIBLE]
there it is.
Open, okay, I get a prompt for my login.
Type in Yes.
Okay.
And let me change the screen size here.
Let's go to change settings,
just to change the appearance,
get a nice font and apply that.
Okay.
Shrink this up a little bit.
All right, so now we've got our
Raspberry Pi connection right here.
So, I've got my terminal window, and you
can see, it's connected to Raspberry Pi.
So, now, before I can use the camera,
first thing I need to do
is actually,
plug the camera into the Raspberry Pi.
So, to plug the camera into the Raspberry
Pi, I'm not showing you that, but
it's not that hard.
What you do is you look on
top of the Raspberry Pi.
There's a special camera connector.
It says camera.
It's admittedly a small font but
if you look on top of it,
there's a port,
a special port that says camera.
So if you have the camera module,
you'll see that at the end of the strip
there's a bunch of little connectors and
it only fits into one slot on the board.
So it says camera on top of it.
So you slide it in there.
Now actually to slide it in,
you're going to have to.
Pull up a little tab, slide it in and
then push down the tab.
So, but it's not that hard once
you locate the camera connector,
which says camera on it, but it's small.
It's not that hard.
You slip the tab in there and
you can also Google this, but
you slip it in there and it's connected
and then once you've connected it,
you have to enable the camera
port on the Raspberry Pi, so
the way you do that is
you use raspi-config.
So I'll start typing
this sudo raspi-config.
So this configures several
things about the Raspberry Pi.
Now see I get this menu here, and
one of them says enable camera.
Now I've already done this but
let's try it again.
I select enable camera.
Do you want enable support for
Raspberry Pi camera.
Enable.
Right?
And great and now I can select finish.
So let's go to finish right there, done.
Would you like to reboot now?
Normally you would reboot now.
I don't want to reboot now, because
that will mess up my connection, and
I don't need to because I've already
actually enabled the camera, so
that shouldn't be a problem.
So the camera should be enabled for
me, but you would normally reboot.
Now okay so now that we've done that,
the camera's enabled,
now we can start Python and
start using the camera.
So what we'll do in this
little demo is just actually
take a picture with the camera.
So let's start Python.
So now we've got a Python terminal prompt.
Now in order to start it we've
got to import pi camera.
Camera there we go, so we import it.
So now we've got the library the package
that we need for the camera.
So now first thing we're
going to need to do is create
an object of the pi camera class, so
we're going to call this constructor.
So let's just call it
camera = picamera.PiCamera.
Note the capitalization
you actually need that.
So now we've got camera.
Now that we have camera we can
start calling methods on camera and
there are a lot of methods.
We can change settings and
all sorts of things but what we're
going to do is just capture an image.
We'll start with that.
So we'll say camera.capture and
then we can just give it a file name.
Now I've already taken an image just
testing this, but let's make it a new one
call it Test image, okay,
that's a fine name, .jpg.
Okay now as soon as I hit enter
it's going to take a picture.
So I will place my face in front of
the camera so it can take a picture of me.
Okay so its done.
So there should be
an image called testing.
So lets do an LS oh sorry.
Let's quit python and now do LS and
look at the directory and
see there's an image, there's a file
called test image.jpg over on the right.
So that should be the image.
So now we want to see the image.
Now I'm going to see this
image on my Windows machine.
So what I'm going to do, basically I have
a problem screen capturing the res re pi.
That's why I'm doing this
all on my Windows machine.
So, what I'm going to do to see the image
is I'm going to transfer that image file
over from the raspberry pi
to my Windows machine and
then on the Windows machine I'll
view it like a normal image.
So, how will I do this?
I will start up.
I will use a protocol called Secure FTP or
SFTP.
FTP stands for File Transfer Protocol.
So SFTP, any SFTP client,
I can download a free SFTP
client on my Windows machine and
use it to connect to the SFTP server
that's running on the Raspberry Pi.
So how do you do this?
So I've already installed one,
it's called WinSCP.
So I'm going to actually have it
right here, I'm going to start that.
Now you would have to.
Okay new version release,
I will not update the new version.
[LAUGH] It opens like this.
It's call WinSCP.
Now winSCP, this is just one of many
FTP clients that you can install.
This is a good one.
Just Google winSCP and install it.
That shouldn't be that difficult but
notice up here under the session it says
file protocol and it has selected SFTP,
that's just the default protocol.
That's what I'm going to use.
It has other protocols it can use, but I'm
using SFTP, secure file transfer protocol.
Whenever you transfer files you
should use a secure protocol just for
securities sake.
So I'm going to type in host name,
host name is going to be the IP
address of my Raspberry pi.
There we go and fusing port number 22,
note that because that's where secure
shell and secure FTP are used.
Oh, and note that there's an entry here
for username and another one for password.
So I'll type in the username.
I'll allow it to prompt me for
the password.
I don't want to give it the password
in general at this stage.
So I'll click log in, and
it should prompt me for the password.
Searching for host connecting.
Okay it prompts me for
the password I type it in.
Click okay, bam.
Okay now,
just to describe what you see here.
Basically, if you look at this,
this is WinSCP.
It really has two directories in it.
On the right hand side is the Raspberry
PI's directory, the remote directory and
if you look in here, these are all
the files on my Raspberry PI.
On the base of the top, the home
slash pie directory in Raspberry pie.
Then the left, over here, is my windows
directory actually, this is showing Harris
documents, this is my documents directory
and there's some stuff in there.
So, my goal is to take something form
the Raspberry pi on the right and
download it to the Windows on the left.
So let's find the file on the right.
The file on the right I call the test
image, that jpg, there it is, right?
Testimage.jpg.
So I select that file and
then I go up to the Download button and
I click Download and that will transfer
it over to my Windows machine.
So I click it.
It did it and then if I look on the left,
there is now a file
testimage.jpg on the left.
So now I have it.
So now I want to actually view
this image I can just go to
the Windows Explorer to that directory.
So if we look here, this is the directory,
Harris Documents, and
I can see test image right there.
If I double click on it, it should pull up
some kind of a viewer to view the image.
So I will now double click on it to verify
and there we go, it's a picture of me.
So that's what was taken with the Pi cam,
or Raspberry pi's camera module when I
used the capture function and that's it,
pretty straightforward, thank you.
[MUSIC]